# Diplura
Based on "Diversity, ecology, distribution and biogeography of Diplura" by
Alberto Sendra, Alberto Jiménez-Valverde, Jesús Selfa, Ana Sofia P. S. Reboleira
First published: 18 March 2021 https://doi.org/10.1111/icad.12480

## Introduction
Diplurans are one of three entognatous hexapod groups present in almost every soil, cave or other empty subsurface space. This order is poorly represented in the scientific literature with only about 900 publications since Linnaeus wrote the Systema Naturae (1761–1767). In spite of their ubiquity in subsurface terrestrial habitats, diplurans have been mostly forgotten in ecological studies and remain without a solid worldwide revision since the monograph of campodeids by Condé (1956) and the Diplura checklist by Paclt (1957). A handful of zoologists have devoted their scientific career to diplurans, beginning with Filippo Silvestri (1873–1949) from Italy; from France: Jean Robert Denis (1893–1969), Bruno Condé, and Jean Pagés (1925–2009); from Germany: Petr Wygodzinsky (1916–1987); from Czech Republic Juraj Paclt (1925–2015); from Russia: Boris Pimenovitch Chevrizov (1951–1993); from USA: Leslie M. Smith (1903–1976) and Mark Alan Muegge (1956–2015); and finally from Uruguay: Pablo R. San Martin (1933–1969).

Diplura is considered the sister group to insects and thus the closest group among the three basal hexapods that include Collembola and Protura (Beutel et al., 2017). Hexapods became terrestrial most likely in early Ordovician (Misof et al., 2014), acquiring breathing capacity through a tracheal system, excretory activity through Malpighian tubules (which are reduced or absent in some families), and reproduction with indirect sperm transference by spermatophores (Beutel et al., 2017). The oldest record of a truly dipluran fossil dates back to the Lower Cretaceous from Brazil (Wilson & Martill, 2001). However, a japygid-like doubtful dipluran fossil was described from the Upper Carboniferous (Kukalová-Peck, 1987). Another four fossil species of campodeids and japygids have been described hitherto (Paclt, 1957).